Gaza civil defense teams say they've
recovered 17 more bodies from Mass
Graves found on the grounds of NASA
Hospital in kanun Witnesses say some of
the victims were killed during the
Israeli Siege on the hospital 310 bodies
have been found so far Zena harun is
spokeswoman for alhak that's an
independent Palestinian rights
organization based in the occupied West
Bank and she joins us now from romala
good to have you with us what first of
all can tell us about these Mass Graves
who is buried in them and when perhaps
were they
buried thank you very much for having me
um the discovery the discovery of these
Mass graves in Nar hospital and before
that mass Graves which were discovered
in Al Hospital are Stark evidence of war
crimes and of course the genocide which
has been perpetrated against the
Palestinian people in Gaza by Israel a
genocide which has now been ongoing for
200 days in inial reports from nared
hospital uh shows that some of the
bodies of the killed people had their
hands tied behind their back and some of
the bodies were women and uh Palestinian
people who were elderly as well and the
key thing uh from what you asked there
is what can we tell you the issue that
we have at the moment in Gaza is access
to the site and not just for
organizations like us Al uh other
independent human rights organizations
or people who should be investigated
these Mass atrocities that we're seeing
in instead we're mainly seeing families
of the deceased or families desperately
looking for other members of their
families of their loved ones often using
their bare hands to dig into these Mass
Graves and try and find just a trace of
those people so access is the key thing
here um some of the testimonies that we
did manage to gather from elif hospital
not from nas Hospital uh showed that one
family member was desperately trying to
find just a trace of his uncle
he said that he'd found his sandals but
even if he could find a body part an arm
or a leg that they could at least take
that and bury him so they're able to
sleep at night that's what he told us
which shows how dire the situation is on
the ground um most of the information
that we're getting at the moment is from
incredibly Brave Palestinian journalists
who are reporting these horrific
atrocities on the ground and they also
being targeted by Israel but what we
need and we're demanding for is a proper
forensic investigation and we need a
proper investigative mechanism whether
that's the UN Commission of inquiry and
of course in addition to the office for
the prosec prosecutor of the
international criminal court to have
full and unrestricted access to the Gaza
Strip as a whole and of course sites
such as these Mass Graves that we've
seen without such an independent
investigation uh can the discovery of
these Mass Graves be added in any way to
the case of genocide against
Israel of course as I said before these
are star examples that a genocide is
being committed and one of the key
things that we need to address is that
the alarm that genocide is being
committed against the Palestinian people
in Gaza has well and truly been sounded
a long time ago by human rights experts
by jde experts and in January the world
Court the international court of justice
said that gen side is plausibly being
committed in Gaza this means that there
are very clear and serious obligations
on state to ratify the genocide
convention to use every single means
possible to prevent and protect the
population from the crime of genocide
unfortunately what we're seeing is the
opposite we're seeing many third States
including the UK Germany and of course
the United States actually continue to
supply Israel with arms as it commits
these atro
crimes what evidence is there that
Israel was responsible for the deaths
and the burying of these people that are
being found in the mass
graves right now the main thing that we
can rely on is eyewitness testimonies at
elifer a lot of people uh said that they
saw the people who survived the siege
ofer Hospital which lasted two weeks
said that people were some were were
executed during that Siege right now if
we have that independent investigation
if we actually have access to the site
we can do a full investigation into what
happened given that there is no access
to Gaza at the moment what is the the
the next thing that needs to happen
right
now right now we demand an immediate end
to the ongoing genocide and Israel as
the international court of justice uh
ordered needs to unconditionally allow
Aid Fuel and water and medical supplies
into the site and there is enough
evidence from what we're seeing on the
ground from what's being documented by
journalists and from eyewitness
testimonies and enough evidence given
and presented at the international court
of justice for third States who ratified
the genocide convention to stop their
complicity to end their complicity in
Israel's ongoing genocide in Gaza and to
stop providing Israel with arms and
Military Support okay Z hanun from alhak
that's an independent Palestinian rights
organization many thanks for taking the
time to join us here on Al jazer thank
you very
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz